# Machine_LearningPython
This repository holds all my Machine Learning Projects as I learn and master my skills. This will be used to be able to track and demonstrate my progress as I learn more about machine learning. 


# Linear Regression Projects:

iCovidDeathModel - This is my first try at a Machine learning project using the Linear Regression Algorithm and an India Covid dataset. This model predicts the deaths due to covid based on the total cases, active cases, and discharged cases. Currently the project outputs the test results of a 20% data set test which shows what the input data is as well as what the model predicts the covid deaths will be. The correct result is also printed on screen to allow a user to compare predictions with correct results to check for accuracy. A scatter plot is also displayed to the screen which shows the correlation between covid deaths and total cases. The project is written in python using Pycharm IDE. The project uses sklearn, numpy, pandas, pickle, and matplotlib.

WaterSalinityML - For this project, I decided to use a dataset which contained various data on water to answer the question of whether salinity of water had any correlation to water temperature. I coded this ML model using python and the Pycharm IDE. I wanted to practice the linear regression algorithm and thought this was a good use for it. I used pandas, numpy, and sklearn for the linear_model. I spent many hours cleaning out the data because it contained many rows which had empty data which was either causing type errors or i felt like would incorrectly skew data. After doing so, i passed this data inputs/ outputs to train my model. initially I had 78 pieces of data which I trained my model on and found that the model would return anywhere from 70% to 75% accuracy, however i wanted to train my model with more data I had available. On the next run, I added a total of 8k data to train the model and all of a sudden the accuracy dropped to 40%. I added a for loop to train the model 5000 times and get the average accuracy from all the scores which was 39%. I increased the data to 10k and then 12k and the average success rate stayed at 39%. After writing some code to display what the data being fed to the model was and its prediction compared to the correct output, I noticed that it was having a really hard time predicting the waters temperature. Sometimes it would guess double digits when the correct output was low single digits. My guess is that the original run with 78 pieces of data had a higher success rate because the model did not have enough data to make a reliable prediction. I also have come to the conclusion that salinity in water cannot help the model predict a waters temperature. I decided to expand my research to include the depth of water in meters, I did the exact same process mentioned before but this time I trained it with over 12k pieces of data. The prediction accuracy average became 67.5% with both salinity and water depth. leading me to believe that water depth was a much better piece of data to predict water temperature. I finally tested to see what would happen if I removed the salinity data all together from the equation, the average percentage stayed at 67.5%. This was a good project for me because it introduced me to doing basic data cleaning. I also played around with what data affected the predictions and noticed that some date can help the model while others don't or can hurt the reliability. I assume that if I added more data from the dataset for the model to train like, Milliliters of dissolved oxygen per Liter seawater, or Potential Density of Water, among others the models' accuracy and reliability would increase provided its trained with the proper data.

WW2_Weather_ML - This small project started as a question on whether the minimum temp on a day could help predict the max temp of that same day. I used a WWII dataset that had various pieces of data including max/min temps for a day. I decided to use Linear Regression once again as I wanted more practice with this algorithm and it seemed like a good fit. This is because if there is indeed some sort of correlation between a days max/min temp, the algorithm should be able to find a reliable best fit line on the data. After getting the necessary data and cleaning any incompatible types from it, I created the linear regression model using python and the Pycharm IDE. In terms of libraries, i used pandas, sklearn for the algorithm, numpy for the input arrays, and matplotlib to create a visualization of the data in a graph. I trained the model with 80% of the dataset and the other 20% was reserved for testing. After training, I tested the model multiple times with an average of 76% accuracy rate. I also wrote a for loop to display all of the models predictions with the correct output as well. Visually analyzing this data shows that the model most times was off in the correct max temp degrees anywhere from 1c to 3c. This to me seems relatively close and shows that the model can get close to guessing a temperature often. This model could probably be improved by removing anomalies from the data set. For fun i also tested adding one more piece of data from the dataset to train the model with, that is, the mean temperatures. With the mean temperatures, the models accuracy improved by about 20%. Visually analyzing does results also showed that the predictions done by the model where often times almost identical to the real correct results. As stated before, I used matplotlib to create a graph which showed the data plotted of maxtemp(y) and mintemp(x) this graph clearly shows that as the minimum temp goes up so does the maximum temp go up for any particular day. This was another great lesson in machine learning and linear regression for me. 


      
      
